and the last time I spoke to you was
three years ago and I'm still not
divorced yet so
justjust imagine if you've been billing
me for all these hours I have been
through several lawyers and several
adventures but most of the action has
been on the French side so it's I can
say nothing's happened or you could say
the different attempts at getting a
resolution have failed but that's
basically why that was the most recent
lawyer we employed was a very very
expensive international lawyer with
experience in both doing international
human rights cases and international
corporate law between France and Canada
he had absolutely no experience with
divorce law whatsoever and what
wonderfully went wonderfully for him he
grant up quite a lot of bills and
nothing was resolved so as you know I
mean it's true of my case was true of
all these cases in general when you just
do the Canadian side it's very simple
and I'd basically be happy with any
outcome as long as it ends up with me
being divorced like I'm really not fussy
just just lot to get divorced already
but the reason for trying to do it on
the French side which is more
complicated was the hope that I would
get a better custody arrangement in
terms of actually visiting and spending
time with my daughter and as per my
understanding I think basically nothing
will happen on the Canadian side of that
like the Canadian side can divorce me
that can nullify the marriage but
they're not going to dictate terms we'd
actually visit her spend time with my
daughter right
no it's been more than a year now that I
haven't seen her we had so I have to use
I have to use my words somewhat
carefully here
there was an arrangement imposed on us
so you know normally use the terms like
a negotiated settlement ISM but there
was no negotiated settlement there was
earlier paperwork that declared me
missing without a trace which is legally
dead and then I had to challenge that
and overturn that and in response to my
challenging my status as missing or or
legally dead the court gave us a writ it
just gave us a mandate for visitation
hours which of course much better than
nothing but there wasn't you know a
discussion of negotiation would have you
and I think none of us realized like
everything in France there was a best
before date on that after just a few
months that elapsed so I made fully four
visits to France to see my daughter two
visits a year for two years and then I
think actually the paperwork elapsed
long before that but my x/y figured out
that the paperwork had elapsed and that
agreement didn't have any legal validity
anymore so since then I've been unable
to see my daughter and it's none of its
valid anymore
all that stuff has elapsed so it was all
temporary paperwork and again to even
describe it as a court order as if it's
surreal so there's no currently valid
paperwork that's another irony so my
status in France were not separated
we're not that what we're just married
so currently in France I have all the
rights of the father because we're not
even like legally we're not separated
were not a strange there's no valid
paperwork we're at step 1 or step 0
where we're still just a married couple
on paper yeah because after after a
certain time elapses for the paperwork
she filed then that becomes invalid and
you're just treated as a married couple
so where does man wife and she I'm not
complaining but she's had a child with
another man I'm happy for you no I
prefer to move on with your life but
legally in France that's considered my
child because she's too married to me
this is one of the reasons to get
legally divorced is you can be facing
the presumption because you know I'm
married to her I'm sure you know that
it's most jurisdictions if you're
married to someone it's presumed of your
child unless you do paperwork saying
that's not my child we were separated
more than five years before she got
pregnant so yeah I mean it's it's we've
been separate for years and years and
years but legally none of that exists in
France
Oh to say she doesn't cooperate to see
my ex-wife doesn't create a statement
that's probably good news who were your
ad because my ex-wife's current strategy
is just to refuse to reply so she
doesn't reply to email her lawyers don't
reply to email you know I think they
will probably drag their feet and do
nothing as the Canadian side of the case
unfolds so as you say I would assume it
will lead to a default kind of
uncontested judgement on the Canadian
side whoa you tell me but I thought I
thought that was basically impossible
because the Canadian side can't order
the French government to do anything
again you are the expert correct me if
I'm wrong but there's the Canadian
divorce and then as I understand it
child custody would be a separate French
matter I've just returned to Canada in
the middle of the coronavirus period I
was living in Taiwan before this so the
assumption is that I'm now gonna return
to University of Victoria my ability to
speak Chinese has improved his last time
you spoke to me that's really really the
main progress in my life so we assume
that's going to be the case if if I join
the French Foreign Legion if I if I
suddenly get employed one or the other
you'll be the first to know
I I also have income from my fabulous
YouTube career I'm an internet
personality so I make a couple hundred
bucks a month so maybe 300 or $400 a
month comes out of my youtube career but
yet oh no I declare it no no I I do
whenever I follow dextrins I put in how
much money ever from YouTube yes
so I'm paid both directly by YouTube
corporation which is Google Corporation
and I'm also paid by patreon which is
the crowdsourcing platform and I can
tell you exactly how much that is
it's just relative to Canadian tax
system it's it's very little as a few
hundred dollars here and there so I
obviously I think of that as a hobby but
it is income believe me I'm not fussy
I'm happy with any divorce I can get I
really want to get on with my life and
I'm I'm not expecting perfection here
it's I'm not fussy I've volunteered to
pay in the past my ex-wife is refusing
to do that because that's the way she's
choosing to play the game so yeah I have
a half century males when I could prove
that offering to pay child support but
my ex-wife first strategy is to refuse
to do that that's how she first treated
me as dead as missing
action and then now also it lets her
just not be in communication with me and
just not let me see my daughter because
if she were receiving child support with
me from me then she would have to allow
me to spend time with my daughter under
the usual system of custody and
visitation so it's her way of avoiding
one half of the system but then she
avoids the other half also and I'm
completely happy to pay whatever the
court assigns to me so I just say I mean
I've I have no complaints that way if
the court decides that I'm rich and I
should pay a lot or they decide that I'm
portion just I'm completely happy with
whatever the court decides is
appropriate
[Music]